So now that we spent the time building and the C like framework for our Twitter web app and we've got
log in and sign up working well doing the rest should be relatively straightforward.
Let's hope so.
We're going to start by creating the home page for our Twitter web app and to do that we'll need some
actual tweets.
So I'm going to go over to the database and create a new table
which will be tweets and that's going to be fairly simple.
We're going to start with an ID which will also be our primary key and then we'll have the tweets itself.
The user ID which will be an IT AND the date time which will be a date time
every day.
That's all I need to know about my tweets.
So just click save.
And then let's add a couple of random tweets.
Just before we do that we'll check a couple of user IDs so I'll go for 7 and 8 as being my user IDs.
So let's insert loving this Web site from user ID number 7 and will use now for the date time
and something similar.
This is great for a user ID number 8 and will use now again there we go.
So we've added those.
I'm just going to change the time a little bit on that second one to make it a little bit earlier.
Just so that we've got two different times to compare.
OK.
So now this code is mostly going to be going in home dot ph P and I want to set it up so that we've
got two columns with a main column with a bunch of tweets in it and then a right hand column where the
user can search tweets and post a new one as well.
So let's just remind ourselves how to do that either on the bootstrap site.
So we'll go back to lay out
and then great
and find something fairly similar to what we're after.
So that second option there eight and four it's pretty perfect.
So let's copy that Eva Yeah and just check that it looks about right.
Yeah.
Wonderful.
OK.
So in this column we're going to have
recent tweets.
I think I'll make a quick extra class for this container.
So let's add in a little bit of padding for its
just try and overhaul padding of 20 pixels which feels about right.
And there we go much better.
OK.
So now we want to generate some tweets.
I'm going to do that with a P P function but I'm not going to write the code here because this is a
view.
So I'm just going to have a simple function call display tweets and I'm going to specify that we want
all public tweets displayed here.
And then I'm going to get into functions or page pay.
And this is where I'm going to create the
display tweets
function so you can see what we're doing that is separating the lay out in home up HP and the code into
functions Doppie HP.
So first off let's just check everything is connected up.
So we should get Puplick there.
There we go.
So if
type is equal to a public then we're going to want to set a specific query then I'm going to have a
variable called Where clause and with public it's just going to be empty and we'll see why that is in
a minute because then we're going to create our query which will be select stuff from tweets
and that is where we're going to have a WHERE clause.
So in other cases it might only pick up tweets from a particular user but here we want all the tweets.
So we don't actually need a WHERE clause at all.
But we will order by the
time which I remember is date time
and we want the newest at the top say descending and I'll have a limit of 10 as well.
So I'll just by diethyl display 10 tweets then we'll get our results.
It's going to be my ask you Ally Querrey
link and Querrey.
Then let's check to see that we've got some results that will check for my ask you rely around use of
results.
And I'll actually check.
First off to see if we don't have any results and if that's the case we'll just.
OK.
There are no tweets to display
so I'm actually going to check if that's working just by putting an error in my query and we should
get there are no tweets to display.
Great.
And then when I remove the I should get rid of that era but it doesn't.
And that's because we need to be able to access the link variable inside this function here and we can
do that by making it global like that.
So this just says we want to be able to access the link variable from inside this function.
If we now run that yep that disappears which means we are getting some results.
So if that's the case let's loop through our results we'll do that using while we'll create a re variable
he called T minus Q L fetch.
Associated rose and want to do that for.
Result.
And initially we'll just echo
the tweet before we run.
Let's make the mistake of forgetting that there.
Take a look.
Excellent.
So loving this Web site.
And this is great.
So let's start getting this tweet displayed correctly.
We'll start off by getting the user's information so we'll need a nother query
which is going to be selecting stuff from uses
where ID is equal to the
and we're going to ask you Will I escape
string.
Not to forget the real
link and the row.
I think we call that user ID.
Let's have a look.
Yep.
One and actually that's cool this use of Querrey
then we'll get use a query result it's going to be my ask your rely queery link use equerry
and we'll have a user
which is equal to a cure.
I fetch
a sock and use a query result
and just to check that everything is working well.
Display the user information.
Let's take a look.
OK.
So I'm going to carry
P and then they use the e-mail address to start off with
we haven't asked them to choose a specific username so I'm going to use the e-mail address as their
kind of identifier.
Next we want the time.
Now Twitter has a nice feature that instead of just giving the date and time it says two minutes ago
or four seconds ago or something like that.
So let's see if we can find out a way to do that.
MP HP
I'm just going to touch forget two minutes ago.
OK.
There we go.
First result
seems pretty good.
And this result looks pretty good.
So it looks like it's going to create what we want.
So let's copy it over into our
functions dot page.
Now we can use time since
to convert our time and we'll need to do it using the current time minus the time stamp which we get
from SDR to time from the date time column which is the date and time that the tweet was posted.
So let's have a look at that.
Fantastic.
So that's working correctly we got 31 minutes and an hour which looks about right.
I'm just going to change it slightly.
So we have men yes just to keep that a bit shorter.
And then let's also put a space in there.
And I'm going to add a span with a class of time so we can style that a little bit and we'll add.
And I'd go as well.
And then for our time classless just try something like color
light gray
began great and I'm going to pit's
a colon on the end of that as well and then we'll have our tweet and I'll put that in paragraph tags
actually.
And then
at the very end we'll put full or unfollowed at the moment.
I'll just put follow because we haven't built a following system yet.
Excellent.
One other thing I'm going to add is just to put a div around the whole thing with a class of tweet
just so we can style it a little bit more.
Not that I'm particularly worried about styling here.
Say I'm going to try a border of one pick's solid gray
a border radius of five x
padding of five x and a margin of 5 as well
OK something's going wrong there let's have a look at what it is.
So hasn't saved my changes things.
Easily done go back and functions and say that's fresh again.
There we go.
Wonderful.
Now as a developer I'm not going to go further on the design front but you definitely can.
And obviously this is a pretty minimal design with no pictures or anything particularly fancy like that.
So we're nearly there on the home page.
I'm just going to add two boxes on the right.
First is going to be a search box and then underneath that if the user is logged in we're going to give
them a tweet box as well.
So let's add those in.
This is going to be her top HP.
Now the search box I suspect we're going to be using several times
so I'm going to write it as a P P function like that and then over and functions dot p p
will create that function
say display Sache
will display that here we don't need any parameters.
In fact it's just going to be a fairly straightforward eco statement.
And it's going to be a simple bootstrap form as well.
So let's get back to components.
And forms
and we'll have a simple inline form like this.
In fact I use single quite stamp
and then this is going to be a label for search.
In fact we're not going to have a label at all
which is have I place holder of Sache
and that's going to remain the same and then we'll have how button
for Sache tweets doesn't need to have a type.
In fact this can just be a div because we're going to submit it by Ajax anyway.
OK let's take a look.
Excellent.
Happy with that.
And then
underneath that we'll have display tweet box
we get.
And again we'll have this as a function
and we only want to do this if the user is logged in.
So if there is a session id and it's greater than zero.
Then we'll Echo more or less the same form as before.
But we're going to want a textarea So let's just scroll up to get a textarea example.
In fact I can use Command F or control f on Windows and textarea.
We go.
So it's pretty straightforward.
Just use textarea instead of input
I'll call it tweet content.
You want use a placeholder and we'll have to close that textarea
and I'll change that to paste tweet
K that doesn't display because he's not logged in.
So let's just quickly in fact will create a new account to get our own Rob 3D now.
Sign up and there we go.
So we now logged in still displaying our search box.
Let's just do a quick check
to see out session variable in action.
Now it doesn't seem to be calling the
function at to just save that.
Make sure it is calling it.
There we go.
Much better than that.
Get rid of that now.
And in fact I'm going to get rid of form in line for this one.
I would get much better.
But I think we need something to divide is to say let's try a horizontal rule
wonderful.
So there's a few directions we could go now.
We need to get following and following sort it we need to allow the user to post tweets.
We need to allow the search tweet function and then we need to activate these three pages.
I'm going to start in the next video with following and on following see if there.